Update SDK Notifications documentation (#291)
kuzzleio/documentation: src/sdk-reference/js/6/getting-started/react/index.md

---
layout: sdk.html.hbs
title: React
description: Getting started with Kuzzle and React
---

# Getting Started with Kuzzle and React

This section deals with **Kuzzle** (+ **Javascript SDK**) and **React** (with **Redux**). We will create some **documents** in Kuzzle and subscribe to **notifications** about document creations.

## Requirements

- **Node.js** >= 8.0.0 ([install here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/))

> - **Yarn** ([install here](https://yarnpkg.com/fr/docs/install))

Reviewer: Why Yarn ? It feel strange to ask this as a dependency, is it really necessary?

- **Create React App** ([install here](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app))
- **Running Kuzzle Stack** ([instructions here]({{ site_base_path }}guide/1/getting-started/running-kuzzle/))

## Prepare your environment

Create your React app and install all the dependencies from the command line using yarn:

```bash
yarn create react-app kuzzle-playground
cd kuzzle-playground
yarn add kuzzle-sdk redux redux-saga react-redux
```

> We have to create our Redux store architecture, like this:

Reviewer: Some links about Redux and Sagas could be useful here

> - src/

Reviewer: Use `tree` output

```bash
src
└── state
    ├── actions.js
    ├── reducers.js
    └── sagas.js
```

> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;├── actions.js\

Reviewer: Put it in a bash code block instead of inserting `&nbsp;`

```javascript
class App extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      message: ''
    };
    this._initialize();
  }

  // ...

  handleChange = event => {
    this.setState({
      [event.target.id]: event.target.value
    });
  };

  render() {
    const { messages } = this.props;
    const { message } = this.state;

    return (
      <div>
        <div>
          <input
            type="text"
            name="message"
            id="message"
            value={message}
            onChange={this.handleChange}
          />
          <button>Envoyer</button>
        </div>
        <div>
          {[...messages].reverse().map(message => (
            <p>{message.text}</p>
          ))}
        </div>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default connect(
  state => ({
    messages: state.messages
  }),
  {}
)(App);
```

At this step we could test our app by putting some random messages in our `initialState` in _src/state/reducers.js_, and then look in the browser if the messages are displayed.

```javascript

> messages: [

Reviewer: We can use some additional context here

---
layout: sdk.html.hbs
title: React
description: Getting started with Kuzzle and React
---

# Getting Started with Kuzzle and React

This section deals with **Kuzzle** (+ **Javascript SDK**) and **React** (with **Redux**). We will create some **documents** in Kuzzle and subscribe to **notifications** about document creations.

## Requirements

- **Node.js** >= 8.0.0 ([install here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/))
- **Create React App** ([install here](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app))
- **Running Kuzzle Stack** ([instructions here]({{ site_base_path }}guide/1/getting-started/running-kuzzle/))

## Prepare your environment

Create your React app and install all the dependencies from the command line using yarn:

```bash
yarn create react-app kuzzle-playground
cd kuzzle-playground
yarn add kuzzle-sdk redux redux-saga react-redux
```

We have to create our Redux store architecture (more details on [Redux documentation](https://redux.js.org/introduction/getting-started)), like this:

> src

Reviewer 2: The tree is displayed on single line

        </div>
        {/* ... */}
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default connect(
  state => ({
    messages: state.messages
  }),
  {
    sendMessage: ActionCreators.sendMessage
  }
)(App);
```

You're thinking inevitably "Ok, it's cool but, I can't see the message on the interface?"... Don't worry.

## Load all messages

We have to load the messages in Kuzzle in app loading, so we need a Redux action to put an array of messages in the Redux state.

In _src/state/actions.js_, we add the `setMessages` action:

```javascript
const ActionCreators = {
  // ...
  setMessages: messages => ({
    type: 'SET_MESSAGES',
    payload: {
      messages
    }
  })
};
```

And we add the associate reducer in _src/state/reducers.js_:

```javascript
// ...
const reducersMap = {
  SET_MESSAGES: (state, payload) => ({
    messages: [...state.messages, ...payload.messages]
  }),
  leaveStateUnchanged: state => state
};
// ...
```

Finally we just use this action in `_initialize` in `App` component, after loading all messages from Kuzzle:

```javascript
class App extends Component {
  // ...

  async _initialize() {
    // ..
    [[snippet=search]]

>     if (res.total > 0) {

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't be 'results' instead of res here ?

>       this.props.setMessages(res.hits.map(hit => hit._source));

Reviewer 2: Same

In _src/state/reducers.js_, we simply add a `messages` field to our initial state:

```javascript
const initialState = {
  messages: []
};

// ...
```

In _src/App.js_, we collect the messages from the state and display them in the render method. We also connect the input to the component state for later.

```javascript
class App extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      message: ''
    };
    this._initialize();
  }

  // ...

  handleChange = event => {
    this.setState({
      [event.target.id]: event.target.value
    });
  };

  render() {
    const { messages } = this.props;
    const { message } = this.state;

    return (
      <div>
        <div>
          <input
            type="text"
            name="message"
            id="message"
            value={message}
            onChange={this.handleChange}
          />
          <button>Envoyer</button>
        </div>
        <div>
          {[...messages].reverse().map(message => (
            <p>{message.text}</p>
          ))}
        </div>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default connect(
  state => ({
    messages: state.messages
  }),
  {}
)(App);
```

> At this step we could test our app by putting some random messages in our `initialState` in _src/state/reducers.js_, and then look in the browser if the messages are displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At this step we can test our app by putting some random messages in our `initialState` in _src/state/reducers.js_, and then look in the browser if the messages are displayed.
```

```javascript
const initialState = {
  messages: [{ text: 'Hello, world!' }, { text: '42' }]
};

// ...
```

## Create our first message

When we click on the submit button of our input, we want to create a document in Kuzzle representing the message.

> First, we have to assure that index and collection are already created in our Kuzzle backend. Just add these lines in the `_initialize` method of our `App` component, after the `kuzzle.connect()` call:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, we have to ensure that index and collection are already created in our Kuzzle backend. Just add these lines in the `_initialize` method of our `App` component, after the `kuzzle.connect()` call:
```

```javascript
async _initialize() {
  // ...
  [[snippet=init]]
}
```

> Now we can create our Redux action `sendMessage` who take a string and create the document in Kuzzle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we can create our Redux action `sendMessage` which takes a string and creates the document in Kuzzle.
```

```

And in _src/state/sagas.js_:

```javascript
import { takeEvery } from 'redux-saga/effects';
import kuzzle from '../services/kuzzle';

const sendMessage = function*({ payload: { text } }) {
  try {
    const document = {
      text
    };
    yield kuzzle.document.create('chat', 'messages', document);
  } catch (e) {
    console.error(e);
  }
};

export default function*() {
  yield takeEvery('SEND_MESSAGE', sendMessage);
}
```

In the `sendMessage` function, we just create a `document` object and send it to Kuzzle to store it in the `chat` index in `messages` collection.

Finally, just load the `sendMessage` action and call it in `App` component:

```javascript
class App extends Component {
  // ...

  sendMessage = event => {
    this.props.sendMessage(this.state.message);
    this.setState({
      message: ''
    });
  };

  render() {
    // ..
    return (
      <div>
        <div>
          {/* ... */}
          <button onClick={this.sendMessage}>Envoyer</button>
        </div>
        {/* ... */}
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default connect(
  state => ({
    messages: state.messages
  }),
  {
    sendMessage: ActionCreators.sendMessage
  }
)(App);
```

> You're thinking inevitably "Ok, it's cool but, I can't see the message on the interface?"... Don't worry.

Reviewer 3: I would rather use a more neutral tone but if you want to keep it:
```suggestion
You're probably thinking  "Ok, it's cool but, I can't see the message on the interface?"... Don't worry.
```

  }),
  leaveStateUnchanged: state => state
};
// ...
```

Finally we just use this action in `_initialize` in `App` component, after loading all messages from Kuzzle:

```javascript
class App extends Component {
  // ...

  async _initialize() {
    // ..
    [[snippet=search]]
    if (results.total > 0) {
      this.props.setMessages(results.hits.map(hit => hit._source));
    }
  }
  // ...
}

export default connect(
  state => ({
    messages: state.messages
  }),
  {
    sendMessage: ActionCreators.sendMessage,
    setMessages: ActionCreators.setMessages
  }
)(App);
```

Now if you load your app, you should see previously sent messages!
Of course, if we send a message it doesn't appear until we reload... Don't worry.

## Subscription to message creation

In order to see messages appearing directly in our app, we have to subscribe to realtime document notifications (pub/sub).

Kuzzle provides pub/sub features that can be used to trigger real-time notifications based on the state of your data (for a deep-dive on notifications check out the [realtime notifications]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/realtime-notifications/) documentation).

> So, for our app, we just have to subscript and call the previously created `setMessages` action to put message in the Redux state.

Reviewer 3: I don't understand this sentence. Do you mean we have to subscribe to the collection?

Reviewer 4: Yes, that's it

Reviewer 3: Then:
```suggestion
We now just have to subscribe to the `messages` collection and call the previously created `setMessages` action to push messages to the Redux state.
```
